If you had the ability to assimilate and
imitate other organisms, and another form
of intelligent life discovered and started
experimenting on you, what would you do?
In this How to Beat video, we’ll follow The Thing,
see if we can make better decisions, and
ultimately attempt to beat the Humans in
The Thing’s prequel. If you think you have
a better way, let me know in the comments!
If you like these how to beat videos,
consider liking and subscribing.
Before we start following the Thing as the devil
on its shoulder, we need to clarify what the
Thing is, how it functions, and what its abilities
are. Ya know, ground it in fictional reality.
Just in case you didn’t realize this already,
I'm not a biologist, or scientist of any kind.
Even if I was, describing what the Thing
is is nearly an impossible task because
it’s so alien to our world. That, and it’s
an entirely made up creature for a movie.
The Director, John Carpenter, even mentions
that they intentionally didn’t try to explain
how the Thing imitates people because it brings
up complex, existential questions that would get
in the way of a simple premise for a movie... So
naturally, I take on the responsibility of trying
to explain the unexplainable, with no canonical
references. Perfect. Should go swimmingly.
Most people, especially the humans
about to be strangled by the weaponized
giblets of their former friend, think the Thing
is just a vile monstrosity of death flesh.
With a bit of luck, wits, parkour skills, and
access to an old World War 2 flamethrower, they
can kill their Thing-friend and get an opportunity
to put it’s blood under the microscope.
At the microscopic level, we can discover that the
Thing is actually just a single celled organism
that imitates the cells of its host organism,
hiding within it, replicating more and more,
and ultimately taking it over completely.
It may have originated from a virus, but the Thing
primarily operates at the cellular level, and
doesn’t exhibit typical viral behavior. The
lack of official documentation about the
Thing has spurred lots of speculation as
to what type of cell it is. One thing’s
for sure though, it's not some dumbass
paramecia you studied in middle school.
I don’t think it’s any one type of cell,
because it has the ability to transform into
any cell it wants. I guess it shares a lot of
similarities with a stem cell in that regard,
but there’s something more fundamental going on
within the Thing cell. It’s DNA.
I’m going to be treading into deep
biological science stuff here, so i’m
really relying on none of you actually
understanding what i’m saying, or realizing
it’s 100% bullshit. Great, let’s continue.
So there’s something different about the Thing’s
DNA, what does that even mean. First, a little
refresher on DNA. DNA is basically a data storage
medium within unicellular organisms that contains
encoded instructions for life creation. This code
tells cells how to survive, how to reproduce,
and when and how to start specializing into
specific cell types to form complex multicellular
organisms with various organs, or cell
colonies, working in unison. Your entire body
and existence basically spawned from single cells
following instructions encoded in their DNA.
My point is that the same mind blowing power
of DNA that enabled humans to be created,
is what gives the Thing its superpowers.
My speculation is that the Things transformative
and imitative abilities originate from
it’s ability to fully edit its own DNA,
as well as transcribe and translate,
AKA read, foreign cell’s DNA.
This is unlike most species on Earth, which can
only edit a percentage of their RNA. Editing
the RNA is like editing the small messages a
courier is already taking to the cell’s factory.
It’s not as flexible as DNA editing. But even the
ability to edit RNA is powerful, and might be what
enables octopuses and other organisms to change
their shape, color, regrow body parts, adapt to
changing temperatures better, etc. RNA editing
usually comes with the downsides of reduced
DNA plasticity. Basically, short term adaptations
at the cost of long term evolution stunting.
Editing the DNA, which the Thing can do, is
like editing the source code that produces the
messages. Meaning it can produce any message
it needs to, and the RNA will carry it to the
cell’s factory to create what it needs. You need
tentacles, you got it. It’s getting cold outside,
let’s synthesize cold‐acclimation proteins and
cold-activated enzymes. You need to regrow a
limb you lost, cell’s will start dividing
and specializing in that area again.
I mean, this stuff is theoretically possible with
artificial DNA editing humans are developing.
Each Thing cell basically comes packaged with
CRISPR’s DNA editing Cas9 enzyme and guide RNA
installed, and it’s own DNA instructions and
molecular machinery required to use it.
Don’t ask me how the fuck
all this is possible.
From what I’ve gathered,
the instructions, or code,
that a unicellular Thing executes is this:
1. Locate a foreign living cell and determine if
it is suitable prey using chemical sensing.
2. Morph a sharp pronged crown which can be
used to pierce the prey cell’s membrane.
3. Lyse the prey cell while extracting and
encoding the prey cell’s DNA template within its
own DNA, which is what it can use to adapt to
different situations and environments.
4. Imitate the prey cell by expressing
genes encoded in the prey cell DNA
template location of its own DNA.
5. We don’t see how the Thing
cell’s reproduce, but I’d imagine it
undergoes cell division via mitosis.
6. Coordinate with other Thing cells
using chemical sensing, and specialize
into other cell types as needed.
Each new cell would repeat the same 6 steps.
As hard as it may be to believe, this is basically
all the Thing is at the cellular level. 6 simple
steps encoded into the DNA instructions of a cell.
Instructions any single cell can process.
Why do the Thing cells follow these instructions,
why is their primary strategy imitation?
I think it’s actually a pretty genius
strategy for a single celled organism.
For all of you who have played Command and
Conquer, think of it like this. Why spend
all your resources building your own base
to fight someone else, when you can just send
an engineer into their barracks, take it over,
create more engineers, and take over the
rest of their base without a shot fired.
You generate their intelligence, assimilate
their knowledge, commandeer their resources,
all without a giant conflict. Killing is
destructive. I’m also no historian, but from
my quick scan of Genghis Khan, part of his success
could be attributed to his assimilatory military
strategies. Instead of destroying other armies,
he would capture and incorporate them into his own
military which he could use for further expansion.
This strategy enables a small nuisance to become
an extinction level threat very quickly.
Back to how the Thing can quickly become an
extinction level threat to humans. Even ignoring
how powerful an assimilatory strategy is,
the strengths of an imitation strategy are also
apparent considering the asymmetric warfare the
Thing cells are engaging in. Thing cells imitating
foreign cells will avoid detection and attack
both from the host organism’s relatively
massive innate and adaptive immune responses,
as well as more sophisticated attacks that
intelligent multicellular organisms create,
like vaccines or surgery. It’s stealth renders
trillions of white blood cells impotent when
faced with even 1 Thing cell. Thing cells
can lyse and replicate within the host
organism almost completely uninhibited.
This process most likely wouldn’t be painful,
and the victim wouldn’t know what was happening.
Your own human cells carry out similar processes
of killing, dying and reproducing. One million
cells in your body die every second without you
noticing. Hell, you wouldn’t even feel sick
and your immune system wouldn’t even notice.
Maybe you’d notice that your fillings fell out
of your teeth, but at most you’d only have a few
seconds or minutes to be alarmed at this, because
the assimilation process takes about 10 minutes.
The average human body has about 30 trillion
cells. If you got infected by even 1 thing cell,
at around 10 seconds to lyse, replicate,
and divide, it would only take 45 doublings
for that thing cell to assimilate all
the 30 trillion pieces of you.
Once the victim is completely
lysed and replicated,
things get interesting. No pun intended.
See, the DNA within thing cells doesn’t just
lyse and replicate a host perfectly.
Once the entire organism is assimilated,
the DNA in thing cells instructs them to
specialize and start altering the biology
of the host organism to give it the necessary
intelligence, knowledge and behavior to ensure
further survival and infect other organisms.
At the end of the prequel movie, the dog thing
somehow knows to avoid the gun-toting Lars, and
knows how to find other research stations that are
100 miles away, this suggests that the Dog-Thing
had more intelligence than just a dog.
My theory is that the thing produces intelligence
within any organism it inhabits by generating as
advanced of a nervous system as it can. It
wouldn’t just create a massive brain though,
because 1, that would kind of ruin
the whole imitation thing, and 2,
doing so would take away resources that the host
body needs to function properly. This is also
likely limited by the maximum intelligence that
the Thing cells had ever assimilated prior.
In a human host, the thing may only restructure
the brain and alter the neurochemistry. In a dog,
it may generate additional brain matter as well.
In a colony of thing cells that were instructed to
separate from the main thing organism, like
one of those spider limbs, that cell colony
will have to develop pretty much all the systems
an independent organism would need to survive,
like a mouth, brain, legs, etc. How does the
DNA know to instruct cells to specialize in this
fashion? I’d imagine like all cells, they
coordinate with neighbor cells and gossip
information around. Once the cells understand
their resource limitations and current cell types,
they can begin to restructure based on encoded
instructions in the DNA to create forms
relevant to these resource constraints.
The Dog-Thing knowing about other research
stations, as well as Sandors-Thing knowing how to
transform himself back into an alien pilot form
capable of connecting to the neural bio ports
of the spaceship necessary to operate it, and
Blair-Thing knowing how to rebuild a spaceship, if
you could call it that, all suggest that the Thing
is capable of storing, transferring, or generating
massive amounts of knowledge. From what I can
tell, there are a few ways to go about this.
The Things can all use forms of communication
native to their hosts. Like writing and talking
to share information as a human-thing. It’s the
lowest bandwidth but most discreet.
They could fuse together and use tendrils
to directly transfer knowledge to one another
similar to how separate slime molds can conjoin
to transfer learned behavior to each other. If
it can meld it’s Thing brain with a human brain,
it could access all their information, and control
both the minds and the bodies simultaneously,
like how an Octopus has 9 brains, with a
central brain controlling 8 other mini brains.
The advantage is that the Thing becomes smarter,
as it can directly process both brain information.
Higher bandwidth but it’s.. less discrete. I think
the humans might be shocked when they figure out
Suzy and Brad are now physically conjoined.
Both of these methods are sufficient for
telling other things about your plans for world
domination, but not highly complex blueprints for
reorganizing your matter into other life forms or
operating and engineering alien spaceships.
The answer may lie in the most unassuming of
all places. Those same tiny strands of DNA.
Remember when I said DNA was a data storage
medium that contained all of the encoded
instructions for how to create your body.
Yah. DNA can store a lot of data.
Humans are currently exploring using DNA
for data storage because it has a storage
density of around 10^19 bits per cubic
centimeter. To give you perspective,
at that density, all the world’s current data
storage needs for a year could be well met by a
cubic meter worth of DNA. Anything from simple
‘Hello World’ messages to Bitcoin private keys
could be encoded. The Thing can pretty much encode
countless Noah’s Ark’s worth of instructions
and life templates in it’s cell’s DNA. DNA is
also incredibly stable over time, as has been
demonstrated by the complete genome sequencing
of a fossil horse that lived more than 500,000
years ago. Storing data within DNA also does not
require much energy, and it can be replicated
error-free, endlessly. I mean, the DNA in each
human cell is around 3 billion digits long and
has to be copied every time a cell divides, which
occurs nearly 2 trillion times each day.
It makes sense that with its ability to edit
its own DNA, it would also use it for storing,
transferring, and populating host brain
matter with its accumulated knowledge.
The thing would still need to retain most of the
host's biology though. Compromising memories,
personalities, behaviors, emotional triggers,
and anything else central to the host’s identity
could cause it to blow it’s cover. If the Thing
discarded a host human's memory of watching a
football game with his friends last night, and
those friends brought it up the next morning,
the Thing would start to come
under intense scrutiny.
While avoiding detection is a priority, survival
and assimilation is the priority. So whatever
the thing assimilates will necessarily have
altered biology to make the host aggressively
and intelligently spread the disease. Similar to
how Toxoplasma Gondii can alter the physiology
of its host, changing it’s mentality, behavior
and physical prowess to guide it towards other
organisms, which it can then spread to.
It might also help us to understand what the host
thinks and feels, how it’s mindset changes, how
it becomes a Thing. Like we talked about earlier,
getting assimilated by Thing cells isn’t a painful
experience if you inhale some Thing cells. Getting
shived by sharpened intestines is a different
story, that’s painful as fuck.
What the victim may experience is the feeling of
an epiphany with the restructuring of the brain
and any knowledge piped in from other Things,
the shifting of their mood with the changing
neurochemistry, urges forming from alterations
to their endocrine system. The victim may feel
more connected to the cells in their body, which
can now edit their DNA to adapt to different
situations and threats. They will still be able
to understand human emotions and perspectives,
but they won’t feel human nor share empathy
for humans. The core biology of who they
are is fundamentally being lysed and developed in
accordance with the survival instructions of Thing
cells. Swallowing a drop of Thing cells would
be like swallowing the red pill in the Matrix,
which changes your entire viewpoint, and alienates
you from everything you once knew or held dear.
A Thing pill would turn an organism
into a psychotic copy of themselves,
an evil twin that disposed of the original.
All this is necessary because if the Thing
cells perfectly imitated, say,
Saul from Pineapple Express,
you’d just end up with a dumb, forgetful,
Thing that sat on the couch watching trippy
YouTube videos all day. The Thing cells would
still infect and replicate other humans Saul
puffed and passed too, but it wouldn’t be
aggressively conspiring against the human race.
This isn’t optimal because the Thing
would no longer ‘want’ to spread,
but it’s cells would still be trying to assimilate
other cells they came into contact with.
Eventually other humans would realize that Saul is
basically causing the deletion and replication of
other humans, and they would eliminate him.
You could argue that this Saul-Thing is the same
person if no alterations occurred, but this
gets into those existential questions John
Carpenter talked about, like the Ship of
Theseus and the Chinese Room. Knowing that
all their cells were lysed, the DNA extracted
and imitated, I would think the Thing’s DNA is
the master of the host organism now, that ‘it’ is
the organism now. Personally, I wouldn’t take any
chances and I’d incinerate the Saul-Thing.
While alterations are necessary, the Thing cells
wouldn’t want to alter the host biology too much.
Overt abnormalities caused by severe biological
alterations, like making the host body flood it’s
arteries with Jack3d’s OG formula causing it to
go apeshit on everyone, could blow it’s cover and
other organisms would detect and destroy it.
The Thing is almost like a much more efficient,
covert, and menacing version of the spores and
Pod People from Invasion of the Body Snatchers,
with one key distinction. Transformation.
What makes the Thing truly terrifying, is its
ability to weaponize giblets and reorganize it’s
biomass to adapt to different situations.
Most of the early assimilation process,
coming from a single cell to assimilating an
entire organism is based on DNA instructions,
but transformations seem to be
influenced consciously.
I don’t think the Thing is consciously telling
each cell what to do, that would be ridiculous.
Instead, I think it’s more of the Thing’s
nervous system sending generalized commands,
or environmental changes which the cells
reorganize around. Same as a human brain
processes sensory stimuli, and converts that
stimuli into electrical signals which travel
all throughout the body, causing chemicals
called neurotransmitters to be released which
perform some type of magic which results in your
body's cells reacting and fulfilling your request.
It’s all very scientific stuff.
This does have a semblance of basis in
our reality. When studying Octopuses and
Squid, Joshua Rosenthal, a neurobiologist,
mentioned that these cephalopods may edit
their own RNA based on things as simple as
temperature changes, but also based on things
as complicated as experiences or memories.
Indicating some form of conscious control over
their adaptations. So the Thing isn’t an insane,
impossible organism. Okay, it is, but it’s
not like the fucking Hulk or Superman. Both of
which are operating on straight up bullshit.
When the Thing is in charge of an intelligent host
organism, it will only consciously cause bodily
mutations as a last resort if it’s under attack.
In some cases, this may be a reflexive or
subconscious reaction, if the Thing is severely
wounded, loses its consciousness and thus control
over it’s cell colonies, or if the hosts biology
emits too much of a fight or flight response
from the mimicked amygdala of a human.
Springing tentacles out of your ass is
going to freak people out. Not good for you,
especially if they have flamethrowers. Completely
restructuring your 30 trillion cells also costs a
ton of energy. First law of thermodynamics still
applies here, so if you’re gonna be transforming,
you better have a pile of steak nearby.
While the Thing can definitely absorb some
serious damage and survive extremely inhospitable
conditions, I think we have to remember that the
Thing is still a carbon-based organism, and
will still die if it doesn’t have energy or
functioning bodily systems. It needs to consume
food, or other biomatter which it would break
down for energy. Especially if it’s doing a lot of
transforming. It needs oxygen, circulating blood,
etc. Which means it can’t just disregard vital
organs, and it has to maintain and repair them
if damaged. Bullets may not kill it easily, but
they could seriously impair the Thing by causing
it to have to spend time and resources repairing
itself before it can be operational again.
Man, John Carpenter saying to avoid getting
into the biology and philosophy of the Thing
because it would just get in the way of a simple
premise was quite prescient. What’s that saying,
never let the truth get in the way of a
good story. Now that I think about it,
my channel is literally all about breaking
these fundamental storytelling rules.
Anyways, I'd love to hear your
thoughts on what the Thing is.
At least now we have a general framework on
which to base our decisions and actions on.
On to the movie.
We start out following the
Thing after it had been abducted by an alien’s
zoological expedition and placed in storage on
the alien spaceship for research purposes. You
might be thinking, why in tarnation would they
bring the freaking Thing on board. Well, the
Thing may have been imitating a cute little
tree bear type animal at the time of abduction,
leading the aliens to completely underestimate
it. It doesn’t excuse the fact that the aliens
are pretty much as dumb as the expeditionaries
in Alien Covenant for just tossing alien organisms
onto their ship carelessly. The Thing then broke
out of it’s containment and attacked the aliens.
Realizing the nature of the Thing, and the immense
danger it posed to not only their homeworld,
but also the rest of the galaxy, they decided to
crash their spaceship into Earth in Northern
Antarctica around 100,000 years ago.
What I don’t fully understand is why the aliens
didn’t warp their spaceship into the sun if they
knew they were doomed. Yes, the sun is really
far away. Like 100 million miles far. Even using
a futuristic laser light craft and photonic
thrusters along with powerful orbiting lasers
would still take about two months to reach the sun
from Earth according to some guy on Quora. But an
interstellar alien species would have to be
using an anti-gravity propulsion system, like an
Alcubierre Drive, which enables faster than light
travel. Which means warping into the sun shouldn’t
take any time at all. Warping into the Sun isn’t
even the least they could do. I’ll give them the
benefit of the doubt, maybe the fight broke out
and the warp drive was disabled or sabotaged,
but it’s still a bitch move because even a hundred
thousand years ago Earth was teeming with life,
Human and not. It’s literally the only planet in
the solar system that has intelligent life. Hell,
they could have driven their spaceship
into the moon which is pretty close.
Or pulled a Master Chief and overloaded
the ship's reactors causing a catastrophic
explosion, seriously he did that
like 5 times in the games.
There is some speculation that the Thing was
a bioweapon created by the aliens, but had
that been the case, better containment facilities
and procedures would have been implemented.
After the crash, the Thing left the damaged
ship and ultimately succumbed to the freezing
conditions where it would be entombed in ice
for a hundred thousand years. The question is,
why would it leave the ship if it knew it was
certain death? Hell, was it even the Thing?
We know that it wasn’t the alien pilot fleeing
from the Thing because the bug-like corpse the
Norwegions found was not the same as
the alien form found piloting the ship.
But it could have been another non-Thing
creature that was abducted and stored by
the aliens which broke free and tried to escape
the Thing by running into the freezing Antarctic
conditions with nowhere else to go. I’d rather
freeze to death then end up like Adam Finch.
I don’t think this was the case though.
If the Thing was ignorant of its location on the
planet, it may have thought that these winter
conditions were seasonal, that there may be
nearby life it could hunt, in which case it would
attempt to journey many miles from the ship.
The fact that the Thing was found near the
ship indicates that it knew it was hopeless
and intentionally froze itself, so whenever,
if ever, someone detected the ship's distress
signal they would find it, and awaken it.
It makes sense that the Thing would know it was
hopeless, because it would have assimilated or
brain piped the alien pilots, uncovering their
knowledge of this planet, the life that resides
on it, and the reason the aliens chose to crash
here was because it was remote and inhospitable.
With most of the intelligent life inhabiting
Africa on the other side of the planet, and
a busted ship with no supplies to fix it,
there were no other options than to get
some icy cold sleep, and just wait.
For the Thing, running out into the freezing
conditions wouldn’t necessarily be certain
death. Maybe it was a survival strategy.
As it lays down in the snow, the Thing’s highly
adaptable cells would start producing antifreeze
to avoid lethal intracellular ice crystallization,
as well as other adaptations present in the
psychrophilic templates it had stored in its
DNA. The freezing conditions would cause cells to
elicit the gene expressions for these adaptations,
much like the cephalopods mentioned
earlier. Undergoing a form of natural
cryonic preservation. In this state,
the Thing would enter a deep sleep,
until it would be awakened by the thawing of
the ice or it was found. It could be eons,
it could be forever. Slept is a misnomer.
This process of freezing reduces metabolic
activity immensely, almost bringing it to
a halt completely. No aging would occur,
no energy expended, no perception of time passing.
The reduced metabolic activity, coupled with the
stability of DNA means that once the Thing
is thawed, it’s game on immediately.
In the ice it would be held in stasis,
waiting until those humans reproduce,
evolve, gain intelligence, turn the dirt,
trees, and water into complex materials,
circuits, and energy. Wait, until they spread
across the planet, and dare to explore the same
inhospitable location where the Thing lies. Where
they would find it, and their curiosity would
drive them to awaken it and all its horrors.
The next thing the Thing know’s is it's awakening
consciousness. Warmth flows in through a hole in
it’s ice coffin, where it’s alien skin is sending
pain impulses from. It’s still frozen in place,
though the ice is weakening and melting. It’s
cells metabolic activity is firing up, breathing
life back into it. It might be wondering why
it was awakening now, and into what world.
It hears a faint noise, something rhythmic.
It then hears a loud noise, and
some muffled chattering.
Voices. These weren’t the noises of aliens
who came to recover their spacecraft.
It may be the voices of those
bipedal organisms from Africa.
The Thing must have been waiting for this
moment, but now that it’s finally arrived,
it is struck by fear. It will know that
for the bipeds to find it, they must
be sufficiently advanced and intelligent.
Adversaries not to be taken lightly.
As the Thing is awakened, it will
probably feel a pain in it’s side,
recognizing that a precise hole was made into
its body though it is encased in ice.
This would confirm that these bipeds
are intelligent, as this hole was
likely made with sophisticated tools
with the purpose of obtaining a sample
that they would use for experimentation.
All the Thing cells would have already completely
imitated the host organism, so they won’t
readily discover it’s assimilation abilities.
Yet. A discovery of an alien organism and
spaceship will be communicated to the rest
of their species though. It is only a matter of
time before that nature of the Thing is found out,
and destroyed due to the danger it
poses. The Thing must know this.
It needs to get out of the ice so it can
collect intel and find out exactly what
it’s dealing with in order to come up with a
strategy. With the ice finally weakening enough,
it can use it’s alien form’s strength
to break out of it and escape.
It looks like a small town, a population of
15-20 bipeds. Buildings are constructed from
lumber and steel. There are relatively
sophisticated vehicles, machinery,
and tools. In order to populate this frigid region
and construct all of this, they would need to have
brought all this material in from other regions
of the planet. Meaning this world is potentially
full of intelligent life to assimilate.
So far every organism that discovered the nature
of the Thing has refused communion, feared it, and
tried to destroy it. This species is unlikely to
be any different. If the Thing is to survive and
spread it’s good word of salvation and communion,
it needs more information about these bipeds, what
they know, how they think. It can’t exactly walk
up to them and say hi though, partially due to the
language barrier, but also partially because it’s
an alien that they want to capture and kill.
It needs to find an isolated biped which it can
assimilate unnoticed and use to hide amongst
the other bipeds. It’s the cellular battlefield
projected onto a bigger stage. Similar to how 1
Thing cell needs to hide amongst the host cells,
1 Thing human needs to hide amongst
the entire human species.
The Thing finds a biped in one of the
machines, searching for something.
As well as a quadruped. They are both
isolated from the rest of the bipeds.
What assimilation strategy should it use though.
With search parties out looking for the Thing,
being quick and discrete is necessary. There’s
no time for shoving tentacles into the bipeds
head to brain pipe information out.
It should assimilate the biped in the
machine first, there is more knowledge and
power to be gained. While one cell may take
10 minutes to fully assimilate it, shoving
a fistful into it will take seconds.
It should just pin it down and infect it, turning
it into a separate autonomous Thing organism.
Converting an enemy to an ally. The information
contained within the Thing’s DNA will propagate
throughout their body, the templates of all prior
assimilated life will be accessible to them,
the cellular alterations weaponizing their
identity, memories, personality, knowledge,
their very humanity against their own kind.
The Griggs thing, now a part of the Thing
species will know how many peoples are
in the camp, what each of them are like,
what weapons and transportation
they have, nearby research stations,
the status of the entire human race.
The dog is nearby too, barking loudly.
Griggs-Thing would know the location of
the nearby American research station,
who is there, and how far it is. He would know
that these Norwegion researchers hadn’t radioed
out about the alien yet because their leader is
arrogant and foolish. Griggs-Thing would also know
that humans love dogs, can’t resist petting them.
There’s a deep bond between human and animal that
can be exploited. Not to mention the dog barking
will alert the humans to its location.
Griggs-Thing should then go
on to infect the dog.
The dog, infected with Thing DNA, would develop
more complex brain structures capable of
understanding Griggs-Thing. Human-dog interactions
are much shallower than human to human,
and thus there isn’t a need to retain much
of its former biology, save for the four legs
and fur. The latter make this form a capable
runner in the snow. The Dog-Thing could help
infect others at this station, but Griggs-Thing
is more than capable of handling that.
Griggs-Thing should natively communicate
to Dog-Thing, and tell it about the nearby
research stations that it should run to. Thule is
a fictional research station, but in the movies
the Norwegions reference Halley station, Northwest
where their helicopter is refueling at. McMurdo,
South where they want to take the injured Olav,
and an unnamed russian station 50 miles from
them. Probably Novolazarevskaya. Based on these,
I'd say Thule station is the most representative
of the Norwegion Troll station. Halley is
too far to run straight to, but there are
numerous research stations surrounding them to
the right and left that are close enough.
It’s currently winter in Antarctica, which means
most ships and flights out are cancelled until
summer due to the darkness and extreme cold.
The only way out of Antarctica during this
time of the year would be to schedule an
emergency C17 transport which would take
them back to Christchurch, New Zealand, or
wait for the 1 winter fly in for the season.
This might draw too much attention though.
It’d be better to wait for the austral summer
when people are rotated out and taken back home.
It’s still wise to have Dog-Thing infect other
stations in the meantime, just in case the
Norwegians are craftier than they look.
Alternatively, Griggs-Thing would have knowledge
of birds and vast sea life. But with no blueprints
stored in the DNA, there isn’t a way to
transform into them as a means of escape.
If the Things do get discovered, and word gets
out to the rest of the world resulting in their
Antarctica-wide quarantine, hopefully it could
flee to the coast and assimilate some form of
sea life. Not sure what the fishing
is like off the coast of Antarctica,
but if it could grab a fishing rod, catch a
fish, infect it, and throw it back in the water,
well.. There is plenty of biomatter to
assimilate and use against the humans.
I’m just imagining 3 trillion fish sprouting
legs and storming the beaches worldwide,
which sounds less scary, and more
like a shitty Sci-fi original.
Best not to get too far ahead of themselves
though, they need to first defeat these
Norwegions that are trying to capture them.
I’m going to try separating this into two parts
this time, so I can get the first part
out faster. This part had a lot of setup,
but part 2 is going to continue straight
to the action, and where we will figure out
if we can really beat the humans or not.
See you guys then!